
  

# GymManagementExpressAPI

  

## Overview

**GymManagementExpressAPI** is a RESTful API built with Express.js to manage gym operations. It provides endpoints to handle member and trainer management, as well as revenue tracking. This project serves as the backend for a gym management system.

  

## Features

-  **Member Management**: Add, update, view, and delete gym members.

-  **Trainer Management**: Add, update, view, and delete gym trainers.

-  **Revenue Tracking**: Calculate and track revenue from members and trainers.

  

## API Endpoints

  

### Members

-  **GET**  `/Members/`: Retrieve all gym members.

-  **GET**  `/Members/:id`: Get a specific member by their ID.

-  **POST**  `/Members/addMember`: Add a new member.

-  **Body Example**:

```json
{
"Id": "2",
"Name": "Jane Smith",
"NationalId": "0987654321",
"PhoneNumber": "9876543210",
"Membership": {
		"from": "2024-03-01",
		"to": "2024-08-31",
		"cost": 1800
	      },
"Status": "freeze",
"TrainerId": "1"
}
```

-  **DELETE**  `/Members/deleteMember/:id`: Delete a member by their ID.

-  **PUT**  `/Members/updateMember/:id`: Update an existing member's details.

-  **Body Example**:

```json
{
"Name": "Mahmoud Sayeyd",
"NationalId": "30212161700578",
"PhoneNumber": "01101804085",
"Membership": {
		"from": "2024-03-01",
		"to": "2024-08-31",
		"cost": 800
              },
"Status": "active",
"TrainerId": "1"
}
```

  

### Trainers

-  **GET**  `/Trainers/`: Retrieve all gym trainers.

-  **GET**  `/Trainers/:id`: Get a specific trainer by their ID.

-  **POST**  `/Trainers/addTrainer`: Add a new trainer.

-  **Body Example**:

```json
{
"Id": "2",
"Name": "Amr",
"Duration": {
		"from": "2024-07-07",
		"to": "2024-08-07"
            }
}
```

-  **DELETE**  `/Trainers/deleteTrainer/:id`: Delete a trainer by their ID.

-  **PUT**  `/Trainers/updateTrainer/:id`: Update an existing trainer's details.

-  **Body Example**:

```json
{
"Name": "Mahmoud",
"Duration": {
		"from": "2024-06-25",
		"to": "2025-06-25"
            }
}
```

  

### Revenues

-  **GET**  `/Revenues/`: Retrieve total revenue from all members.

-  **GET**  `/Revenues/:id`: Get revenue generated by a specific trainer by their ID.

  

## Installation

  

1. Clone the repository:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mahmouds10/GymManagementExpressAPI.git
```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

```bash
cd GymManagementExpressAPI
```

3. Install dependencies:

```bash
npm install
```

4. Start the server:

```bash
npm start
```

  

## Usage

  

1.  **Start the Server**:

- Ensure your server is running on `http://localhost:3000`

  

2.  **Interact with the API**:

- Use Postman or any other API client to make requests to the API endpoints described above.

  

3.  **Replace Server URL (if necessary)**:

- Replace `{{server}}` in the URL with your server's address if it's different from `http://localhost:3000`.

  

4.  **(Optional) Import Postman Collection**:

- To simplify testing, you can import the provided `Gym_Collection.json` into Postman. This collection includes all the predefined requests for easy interaction with the API.

- To import:

	1. Open Postman.

	2. Click on `Import` in the top left corner.

	3. Select `Upload Files` and choose the `Gym_Collection.json` file located in the project directory.

	4. Click on `Import` to add the collection to your Postman workspace.

	- Once imported, you can directly use the predefined requests to interact with the API.

  

## Contributing

  

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request with your changes.

 

  

## Contact

  

For any questions or feedback, please contact me at mahmoudsayed1612@gmail.com.
